Hellinger motor we just got in we want
to show you some of the differences
they've made a lot of changes in o.9
one of the things is they went to a
smaller alma mater and notice that they
changed the balancer on it it's got a
different water pump pulley they've
changed the power steering pump so
there's been some changes that don't
have a self-contained reservoir on it no
more
well so there's been some changes of
course the intake has a lot looks like
an ls1 intake but notice how Staller
this motor is rated at 375 horse and if
you notice on the back
since the o9 challenging get it with a
six-speed it's got the dual diaphragm
clutch on a real heavy clutch use the
same type of clutch that's used like on
a LS 9 or the new Camaro 2010 with the
ls3 with a six-speed has a clutch very
similar to this here so there's a lot of
differences they've changed the shape of
the exhaust manifolds and went to a
cast-iron manifold on this with some
heat tapers but this motor is rated at
375 horse the fuel line they've changed
the fuel rails some of course it has the
pins here for put adding the tap top
covers and of course your oil fill here
and your PCV hose but it's basically the
same motor as in the past you can see
they've changed a few things with this
they this does have variable cam timing
also which we're going to be able to be
at work with we're working on the old
nine stuff right now
that's the Challenger that's coming in
and Mike concrete and it's getting a 6-1
in it this is one of our next projects
we want to go next door we just got a
low nine truck motor in and I'm really
excited about the truck motors because
they're way up in horsepower let's go
next door and we'll show you and this
one a new five seven truck motor and
this is going to be a pleasure for a lot
of guys to put in there earlier pickups
ring it does come with the top cover
just like their notice it has an intake
more like the Challenger it's a little
taller intake but it going to make more
this engine actually makes 390 horse now
so this is going to be a real bear so
with headers and programming but notice
for the guys that's really close to the
radiator these come out and the throttle
body turns straight up so this is going
to make it a lot easier and a lot of
applications even putting it in street
rods of course they come with a
mechanical fan which can come off but
notice now that the alternator the Paris
tier and Larry took the power steering
off because he's changing over to a GM
pump because this is going in a Jeep and
the compressor everything's on one side
now and so they're back to where the top
outlet of suction sides on the bottom
side and here's your heater connections
where the older ones had at a different
location and the small one here's the
pressure to the heater and the bigger
one here on the suction side of the pump
return so there's going to be some neat
things with this motor it's got the six
one style heads on it you know nine just
like that five seven you've seen that
was next door that's out of the new
challenger it has six one heads on it
that's one of the reason they're making
the horsepower so this will be a real
neat application especially if you want
to do an automatic Larry's putting flex
plate on the back now because this one's
going to get a different transmission I
think a 518 behind it since it's going
in 89 Jeep but some of these exhaust
manifolds are really uptight so in
places where you're close quarters
everything some of these lost manifolds
the only one the one on the right might
be a problem because it comes straight
out the back but that goes long notice
here's this challenger that would you
another one we just got done with a 6-1
and everything they kind of did the
flames on the covers and everything
really looks good okay we'll follow up
and start with another one of our
transplants the 66 satellite that really
worked out good they brought us a truck
motor it's an old Ford truck motor see
instead aluminum valve covers and see
how we plated the valve covers we use
the the box here for our trance throttle
cable where we use the pedal positioning
switch you can see the Lokar cable
going to the throttle pedal then this is
a Abbott box because this is a manual
speedometer habit if you call us we give
you the name they make a box that picks
up the speed sensor
pensee runs a mechanical speedometer
cable and it goes to the mechanical
speedometer so with this conversion they
were able to stay with their main
original - and then keep it looking all
Rizla's car ready let's do it looks
basically all original except for a
little pin stripe down the side and
notice the heater duct works right now
I'm putting the original heater in it
and hooking up the a/c Larry just like
that but you can see with the truck
motor with a press on the driver side
and all mater it all still worked real
good and made a neat package and still
fit under the hood but way ahead let's
give you a good surprise what we got
right behind us here this is the new
Hemi 6-1 with a new magnet and blower
they finally have got it out this the
first one we're doing we're doing it for
Garrett's Rob rod shop out of Columbus
they're putting this I think in a 72
Challenger still drive-by-wire notice
that we did the air duct and everything
and they offer this in black or chrome
or they'll do a special version for us
where we can polish it if you want to
polish for your show Hemi so this makes
a real neat swap and it looks real
similar this is the o.9 challenger 5 7
motor euro 9 challenger 5 7 s have
variable cam timing but one runs six one
heads on it and they have an intake and
plastic similar to the six ones so you
notice that with these they're going to
get more power to their rated at 375
horse I forget what the torque is but
it's up there real good
so they're going to make good
performance voters especially with the
cam change they built 400 or better and
had good headers so we're in the midst
of working on the programming with the
computer and now we've just got all the
stuff done where I think we make the 300
season the NAG ones and the six ones run
with an Ag one training so that's one
we've got on stand now we're ready to
run source right there at programming
man
but we thought you'd like to see this
6-1 Hemi with a new Magnussen blower on
it it ought to had a higher than 30
horse to this 425 horse the motors
already rated that a whole bunch of new
stuff coming keep tuned